Examples straight from the book

Algorithms for Efficiency

The Human Genome Project has made great progress toward the goals of identifying all the 100,000 genes in human DNA, determining the sequences of the
3 billion chemical base pairs that make up human DNA, storing this information in databases, and developing tools for data analysis. Each of these steps
requires sophisticated algorithms. Although the solutions to the various problems involved are beyond the scope of this book, many methods to solve these
biological problems use ideas from several of the chapters in this book, thereby
enabling scientists to accomplish tasks while using resources efficiently. The
savings are in time, both human and machine, and in money, as more information can be extracted from laboratory techniques.

Algorithims for Routing

The Internet enables people all around the world to quickly access and retrieve
large amounts of information. With the aid of clever algorithms, sites on the
Internet are able to manage and manipulate this large volume of data. Examples
of problems that make essential use of algorithms include finding good routes
on which the data will travel (techniques for solving such problems appear in
1.1 Algorithms 7
Chapter 24), and using a search engine to quickly find pages on which particular
information resides (related techniques are in Chapters 11 and 32).

Manufacturing and other commercial enterprises often need to allocate scarce
resources in the most beneficial way. An oil company may wish to know where
to place its wells in order to maximize its expected profit. A political candidate
may want to determine where to spend money buying campaign advertising in
order to maximize the chances of winning an election. An airline may wish
to assign crews to flights in the least expensive way possible, making sure that
each flight is covered and that government regulations regarding crew scheduling are met. An Internet service provider may wish to determine where to place
additional resources in order to serve its customers more effectively. All of
these are examples of problems that can be solved using linear programming,
which we shall study in Chapter 29.

Algorithms for Privacy

Electronic commerce enables goods and services to be negotiated and exchanged electronically, and it depends on the privacy of personal information such as credit card numbers, passwords, and bank statements. The core
technologies used in electronic commerce include public-key cryptography and
digital signatures (covered in Chapter 31), which are based on numerical algorithms and number theory.